0:00  
Now at the time, Jason, we were trying to raise $150,000 at a $1.5 million post money valuation. So $450,000 You could own 10% of Airbnb. And the majority of them didn't even reply to the email. I actually ended up publishing a bunch of the rejection emails, but many people said like, this isn't a good idea. Many people said like travel. We're not like excited about travel. I remember one investor said We love everything but you and your idea. In other words, we don't. I'm like, well, everything else is good. I unfortunately, I was like, I just I thought to myself, wait, what else is there? There's me there's, yeah, I guess there's the day but they don't know they like the day by there.

0:38  
This Week in Startups is brought to you by lemon.io. Need to speed up your product development without draining your budget. Hire vetted engineers from europe@lemon.io. Go to lemon.io/twist to get 15% off for the first four weeks. mero helps take ideas from in your head to out there in the world, with its ability to democratize collaboration and input. Sign up for free at miro.com/startups. And in brokers startup insurance program helps startups secure the most important types of insurance at a lower cost. And with less hassle, save up to 20% off of traditional insurance today at a broker.com/twist While you're there, get an extra 10% off using offer code TWIST.

1:29  
Alright everybody we've had all the legendary startup CEOs on This Week in Startups over the past decade, Daniel from Spotify, Travis from Uber, Toby from Shopify, Brian from Coinbase, Sony from DoorDash, Melanie from Canvas, Luton and from snowflake. Man, I have been wanting to interview the founders of Airbnb, which is just one of the great companies of all time, certainly in the last two decades of startup companies, and I've been able to have both founders now on the program we had Joe Gebbia, on episode 1675. And today, his co founder and the CEO of Airbnb, Brian Chesky. is with us. How you doing, Brian?

2:08  
Good. Great to finally be on. Jason. Good to see you. Yes.

2:11  
We've been trying to get this on for a while. And we finally did it. Congrats on the great performance. Thank you in your last quarter. Things have been going great. I think big picture. When you look back on the last decade of running this company, there were really two meaningful companies that came out of this last cycle after Facebook and Twitter, you had Airbnb and Uber. Right? And I'm curious, how would I know the Uber story obviously up close and personal how that was accepted by the investment community and the hurdles that had to get over to want to be in that business. But you famously had a lot of resistance to the to the concept of Airbnb, and now massive consumer acceptance. So when you look back on your journey, everybody telling you, this is crazy. It's never going to work. And then everybody when they see you saying, oh my god, I love Airbnb. How do you reconcile that as an entrepreneur?

3:05  
We came up, you know, obviously, I know Joe told the founding story. But I'll tell you a little bit of the there's a founding story then there. Jason has a story of all the rejection. The first time we came with the idea. It was October 2007. It was for a design conference that was committed in Francisco, there was an after party at the Fairmont Hotel, we went to the Fairmont Hotel, the first person I told about the idea, he looks at me with a straight face. He said, Brian, I said, Yes, he goes, I hope that's not the only idea you're working on. That's what he said to me. And this is like a design luminary in our industry. And that was kind of the general sentiment. I remember in January, February 2000 2008, Joe and I were living in San Frisco Sun apartment, and we had a roommate named Phil. And Phil worked for this company called justin.tv. Just not TV was a precursor to twitch. And it was funded by this program called Y Combinator. Now, I didn't know anything about Y Combinator. I didn't know anything about Silicon Valley. I didn't even know what angels were somebody once told me there are these people called Angels. And I said, Oh my God, this person believes in angels. So I was really naive. I didn't know anything about Silicon Valley is a designer by training. And Michael said, I can introduce you to these angel investors. And so Michael introduced us to like 10 to 20 Angel investors. Now at the time, Jason, we were trying to raise $150,000 at a $1.5 million post money valuation. So $450,000, you could own 10% of Airbnb. And the majority of them didn't even reply to the email. I actually ended up publishing a bunch of the rejection emails, but many people said like, this isn't a good idea. Many people said like travel. We're not like excited about travel. I remember one investor said We love everything about you and your idea. In other words, we don't. I'm like, well, everything else is good. Unfortunately, I was like, I just I thought to myself, wait, what else is there? There's me there's Yeah, I guess there's the day but They don't they, they like the day by there. So it what they meant by they liked everything about us. And the idea was, it was three founders, one software engineer and two designers. And they thought, well, you have like too, too many designers. So your founding team, you know, like people just associated designers as like non technical and therefore, like maybe not adding value. And I think they I always felt like Joe and I are ability as being designers was actually part of the secret sauce for me, because it was not a pure technology problem. And also, people said, This is crazy strangers never say they're strangers. So basically, no investors will invest in this company. Everyone rejects us. It's now the, like, fall 2008. We had just provided housing for the Democratic and Republican National Conventions. You know, Barack Obama, John McCain running for president with the air beds weren't working. We were renting out air beds, they weren't selling so we thought, let's go with breakfast. We're air bed and breakfast. And so Joe and I x ended up creating this collectible breakfast cereal. These boxes of Cheerios, we call Obama owes the breakfast of change. And then we bought Captain Crunch. And we read that John McCain was a captain the Navy and we call that Captain McCain's a Maverick and every bite, and it seemed kind of crazy. We made these cereal boxes. And we actually printed in like made $30,000 worth of cereal boxes that we sold. And you know, those baseball card binders that kids put it as binders of kids, but we took credit cards in them. And once we funded this company, 10s of $1,000 in credit card debt. We use the cereal boxes to get us out of debt. But now it's like October 2008. We've been working on this idea for like a year. At some point. My mom said, Are you a serial company? And I I technically I think we were I didn't want to admit it. I guess we were serial entrepreneurs, but not the right kind of CO entrepreneurs. And and I remember I was with I had a desperation. Joe and I went to dinner with Michael Seibel and Michael Seibel. He had co founders, Justin Kahn, Emmett shear and Kyle Voigt. Emmett runs Twitch, Kyle Voigt runs crews. And we went to like a Thai restaurant San Francisco. And it was like towards the end of the year, and we're like brainstorming what to do. We were kind of screwed. Or like everyone said no to us, we have no traction. We're selling collectible breakfast cereal. Everyone thinks his ideas no good. No one wants to fund like two designers and entrepreneurs engineer. What do we do? And then Justin says, I have an idea. Why don't you apply to Y Combinator? And it's like, and we're like, Well, we already we already launched. Why would we apply to Y Combinator. And they're like, because you're dying. You have no like growth. And, and so we go on the Y Combinator website, and we realize that the deadline was the night before. In other words, it just expired. We can't wait for another batch. Oh, by the way, Jason, the financial crisis, you remember had just happened? Sure. I remember one investor this is I'm not I'm not gonna lie. One investor told me. He said, The economy's so bad. We won't even invest in good companies. You think we're going to invest in air bed and breakfast and unproven concept people stand with each other? Oh, and one other story is that Joe and I went to University Avenue, where we met an investor who I won't name. He orders a strawberry smoothie. He then sits down and drinking the strawberry smoothie never picked his head up. i My first interaction investor. I'm like, maybe this is what they all do. He goes, Ah ha ha ha. And then within 10 minutes, he like leaves. And I thought like, yeah, the park is car. We haven't seen them sense, though. That's hilarious. So with this joy changed at this point. We're like, these bad news bears of Silicon Valley. We were like rechecks and Justin Kahn, were at dinner, and they're like, Oh, my God, you're totally gonna die now because like, you can't get to Y Combinator. And then Justin Kahn says, I'm going to email Paul Graham. And he ends up emailing Paul Graham, and he goes is this deadline? Definitely, definitely over. And Paul Graham says, I will extend it to midnight tonight. It says like 9pm. Okay. Yeah, they have to apply by midnight. Now Joe and I are in San Francisco. We have a co founder named Nate who's an engineer. He's a Boston. Now. It's like midnight, and they kind of doesn't sleep past I think he was went to bed. So I told Joe, I said, Okay, well divide and conquer, I will fill out the application. And you will convince Nate, you're gonna wake his ass up in Boston and convince him to join Dude, why come to Congress we get in. So he calls Nate. Apparently, he goes Nate's in. I'm like, great. We fill out the application. We submit it. Then a week later or whatever, we get an interview. And then we tell me and I think Nate's like, wait, what would I agree? Do I agree to like move to San Francisco. So you know that movie a mile or like Eminem, he's like, You got like one shot. This was kind of it. This is like our one shot, right? So we like prepared for this interview like crazy. And we were warned. This is gonna be like a 15 minute interview. And they're going to ask you for questions at the same time and you better know every answer and Justin and Michael and Emmett said like, just know your numbers inside and out. So we basically did like rehearsals. We almost recreated like NYPD Blue or like, like we throw a phone book in each other's faces like we just like, we were just like, we better get this right. So we go to Y Combinator, we go to the interview. It's exactly what I expected. It's Paul. It's Jessica Trevor Brockwell. And it's I think, Robert Morris. And they're all like, basically, they all ask us questions, same time, like all four. And I was like, totally bewildered. And the first question Paul Graham asked me is people are actually doing this? And I said, Yes. His second question was, what's wrong with them? And the interviewer at that point would tell him for their he midway through the interview, he basically tried to get us to create stripe, he's like, You should create this like, payments company or like an online bank or something. And we're like, that seems like a really good idea. But like, we have an idea. And we're about to leave the interview. It doesn't seem like it's going well. And Joe takes out a box of Obama O's. And he hands it to Paul Graham and Paul Graham's like, like, he just got a novelty gift. He's like, All right, thank you. Yeah. And, and we go, we goes, What's the story goes this out, we funded the company. And he goes, What do you mean? He said, Well, we told him a story, how he like made the cereal boxes. And then the way we sold the cereal boxes, we mailed them to reporters, and they put them there, newsroom desk, and everyone by them. And he said something like, I guess if you can convince people to pay $40 for afford our box of cereal, then maybe you can convince at least some people to stay in each other's homes. And he ended up admitting us to Y Combinator. And I guess we've never looked back since. I also want to get to Jessica because I think Jessica thought I remember Paul and Jessica stead later they thought we were like cockroaches. And I think they mean it in a good way that it was like an investment and nuclear winter. And then a nuclear holocaust The only thing that survives or cockroaches, and the only thing that would survive an investment nuclear winter would be the founders of Airbnb, we said we won't die, no matter what happens. And so they basically funded us because we seen Brazilian unkillable, and like even if the fundraising market was dried up, we would just go on so it was definitely not a story to glory in the beginning. And I like to remind founders of this, because then when we got product market fit three months later, we got funded by Sequoia. And so when a three month period, we went from like, kind of like this untouchable company to Sequoia and the view you were part of Sequoia so you'll remember 2009 I would say it was like it's I don't know it's like going into like an Ivy League school or something like it meant something was a real seal of approval and it was crazy. And you

12:27  
were going to basically if Sequoia is invested in you that was like okay seal of approval. This is a legit company

12:33  
and I think it meant even more than not because Sequoia was more prestigious them but because there wasn't a much capital then like I just you know I don't you know this industry better than I do. But I don't remember hundreds of people I could contact to get money they're not really angel list I don't think existed or

12:48  
I was just get it was venture list at the time. I Open Angel Forum, they were like maybe you could make a list of maybe 25 Angel investors in the valley and and

12:57  
half of them said no to us already. So clearly, and we raise money. Jason, our first actual round, which is a Series A was in this is when we had product market fit. We were voted by Y Combinator. So each batch they rate like the best company like halfway through and at the end, and we were rated the best so we had the most traction. And then then we raised $615,000 at a $3 million post money valuation Coronavirus with product market fit $3 million post money.

13:28  
It's crazy. And you just like look at the signaling at that time. Yeah, it was so weird. Like people had these ideas like, oh, well, the only way it's gonna work is if you're from Stanford, you're from RISD. Like, what is that? Like? Yeah, and one developer and two designers? Yeah. Makes a difference between two developers in one designer, like, obviously, these are not the material things, all that matters is the customers, and do they engage with the product and actually get some value? And that's what you figured out was, you don't need to appeal to everybody that just has to be somebody who gets value from this. Exactly. Then there's a lesson for people. Yeah,

13:59  
yeah. That's a great lesson. Michael sabe. So tell us to me. I used to tell Jason, Michael, I said my sister won't stay in Airbnb, because initially when I first committed dia, she said you wouldn't do it. And he said, you don't. Who cares about your sister? She's not the early adopter. You need the early adopters. You just need enough people to get the flywheel going. Everyone else will come later. So focus on those people.

14:19  
Yeah. You think about his first experience with Justin TV was like, Justin TV was called Justin tv, because there was one person who was insane enough to record their life. Yes. Yes. And it became twitch. And now here we are. There's 10 million people streaming and like you turn on tick tock, and there are people who are working in China, like cooking, and they're on a live streaming like what is happening in the world, like people are making a living, just live streaming themselves cooking in a restaurant, halfway around the world. And it really is about those early adopters. Imagine this, you've got the greatest idea ever for a tech startup and it's going to change the world but you got a problem. You don't have the engineers you need to make this a reality. Well why it's hard to find engineers, right? Everybody's in competition for those great engineers, and you've got to manage your burn rate. You don't have unlimited resources like those big slow incumbents, you've got to be efficient. So now imagine you had a partner who could provide you with more than 1000 On Demand engineers. And these tabs were vetted, experienced, result oriented, and passionate about helping you grow, and they charge competitive rates. Sounds too good to be true. Well, you need to head to lemon.io. Right now, it is not too good to be true. Startups choose lemon.io. Because they only offer handpicked developers with three or more years of experience. And really strong portfolios, only 1% of candidates who apply get into lemon.io, a couple of great launch founders have worked@lemon.io, and they had great experiences. So here is your call to action. To learn more, go to lemon.io/twist and find your perfect developer or tech team in 48 hours or less, and twist listeners get 15% off the first four weeks, stop burning money, hire developers smarter, faster, visit lemond.io/twist. I was really impressed today. And I've always been impressed with you. And Joe and the team have this like relentless focus on the customer experience. Yes. And now becoming a public company growing at the pace you did having to deal with regulations. And there's a lot of blocking and tackling, tackling and operational stuff. I'm curious how you spend your time today as CEO of the company. Because in just over the last decade, every time I talk to you about Airbnb on Twitter, or I mentioned Airbnb or something like about it, you're instantly in there responding and thinking about product. And so I'm curious, how much of your day are you on product? And over time? How is that change? And how do you stay so focused on product versus doing your chores, which as a public company, has a lot of chores that come up?

16:55  
Yeah, it's a great question. I would say, I spend almost all my time on product marketing and hiring those three things in Product Marketing. I also combined like like a lot of companies, they think of marketing is like advertising and product is product development, we actually have a mark a function, we took it from Apple product marketing, where we tie, we basically try to make sure product and marketing are joined the hip think of product is the chef's marketers, the waiters. And a lot of companies like the waiters can't go in the kitchen, they get yelled at. So we really tried to make them integrated. So here's how we run the company, the entire company is a functional organization. So we have an engineering group, a product manager, Marketing Group, a design group, like UPS, you know, legal HR. So most every other company is divisional or sub divisional, the entire company is on one single roadmap. So I mean, yeah, there's a counting system that maybe aren't. But basically anything you ever see is on one roadmap, most companies have separate roadmaps, and then we do these release cycles. And we basically do a giant release in May and a giant release in November. So basically, the idea is that we try to basically take the best of software development and the best in hardware development and put it onto one practice. And the reason why is I found that the way people develop software, which is great for 10 people, where you basically democratize data, you decentralize, and anyone can ship anything, and it feels very empowering. And it feels it can go really fast. That's great until you're like 1000s of people. And then everyone is basically a free free for all. They're all hitting the payments platform. There's no cohesive roadmap, as you subdivide the company ideas gets smaller, you don't even know what to market, and then you can't keep track of everything, then there's like no accountability. And so and then the lack of accountability becomes politics and bureaucracy and all this weird stuff. So when the pandemic occurred at a basically Jason survival, we lost 80% of our business in eight weeks. And Joe and I and Nate, we were like, What the hell do we do? And we were like, staring into the abyss. I mean, you might remember people were making predictions like Is this the end of Airbnb will Airbnb exist? And one of the people I was talking to a lot back then was Johnny, Ive, he now works with me. But he told me the stories of Steve Jobs going back to Apple. And when Steve Jobs went back to Apple, you know, they were like nine days from bankruptcy. And I'm like, Well, that seems kind of like you know, Airbnb is in a very precarious situation. And Johnny Ives said, you know, you can cut but you can't cut your way to the growth. Steve, you have to build product, you need to stay in the product. And I hired a guy named Haruki OSI from Apple, he was also instrumental. And so I totally changed how I ran the company. So what I used to do is I was very hands off, I democratize data, I was very much reactive. I thought my job was like strategy and caliber capital allocation. And here's the weird thing, the less hands on I became I was, the more I got sucked into problems. And when I by the time I got sucked to a problem, it was like 10 times as much work. So then I decided I'm going to do something different. We're going to be totally integrated one roadmap, I'm going to do very few things and I'm going to be involved in every single detail in the Airbnb is not going to do anything more than I can personally focus on in in that will became the governor and this is what Steve said at Apple. He said, Well, we won't do more things than I can focus on. Now. This sounds It would slow us down. And initially it did slow us down, because I would review everything. So every I had these things called CL reviews. And every single project in the company, I had a program management function. And I would review everything either every week, every two weeks, every four weeks or every quarter. And then we track the progress. And then you know, then everything would ship on a single deadline. Initially, people hated this, no one wanted to collaborate. People didn't want to have imposed deadlines on them. They were wondering, Why are you meddling? Like, why are you reviewing all the work, but eventually, it created a culture. And I was trying to teach a sense of quality, I was trying to be like the editor or the orchestra conductor. And eventually what ended up happening was, we were able to like start shipping faster. And in the last three years, we've shipped 340 upgrades and innovations. And we obsessed I mean, a lot of companies, they're just trying to grow. And they look at their dashboard, they have these sub teams looking at growth or doing a B tests. And I don't like that process, the process of just chasing growth, because first of all, you're not really solving customer problems. And if you're over rely on an A B testing, and you choose B, do you know why B worked. Because if you don't know why B work, you're stuck with B, and you can never redesign B because you don't even know why B was better than a. And so we decided if you're going to do E or F experimentation, you better know why B work better than a, we're going to be qualitative and quantitatively driven. And so what I do is I spend most of my time just reviewing work and hiring people. So I review all these different things. And I don't really spend a lot of time on corporate matters anymore. And the reason why is because once we designed the company, like it became very efficient, we also don't have a lot of employees, we have like 5300 employees. And we did three and a half billion dollars in free cash flow last year. So you can just think about that. For a credible dollar, we do 40 42% of 42 cents and free cash flow, which I believe is higher than Google or Apple. Now, obviously, we're not nearly as profitable absolute dollars, but it's very efficient. So we try to be like the navy seals around the Navy. It's a small, lean elite group. It's super intense. It's kind of day and night, to be honest. But I'm honest about it. And when people come to join, I probably try to talk people out of joining more talking them in I'm kind of like, are you crazy? Like why do you want to put up with all this? And it really tries to set a mindset that well, you come here, this is a really intense place. But hopefully it's going to be really gratifying. And we're really connected the top 3040 people in the company. And I think of it as like one shared consciousness. Does that make sense? So it's one shared consciousness. I don't push decision making down, I pull it in, I don't make the decisions on my own. There's like a group of us a concentric circle that like kind of just aren't in constant conversation. I don't do strategy reviews, I do this thing called Living with a strategy. Instead of doing like a three hour that's like what boards do they get like a deep dive. I talk about it every week until we resolve it. So every week we'll have like, what are we gonna do about this topic or during this topic until the answer reveals itself. And I think this way of working is trial and error. I tried all the other ways of working, they didn't work. And I think this like bottoms up like giving tons of people a lot of discretion. It does work when you're small. When you get big, it becomes a free for all. And I think a lot of big comms are paying the price.

23:20  
Yeah. And the prioritization gets lost what I like about a here's what I can keep in my brain. Yes, that also parallels what a customer can keep in their brain executors can only handle so many new features, at certain a certain velocity. And if you give them 20 things, they're gonna remember to me exactly.

23:39  
And probably years ago, we had, so we have one marketing department now. And they only market a few things a year and the things we market you probably know about because we try not to say anything you don't know about upfront and clear pricing was the last zactly Yeah, exactly. And today we are we promoted me rooms. And we promoted that there are a whole bunch of things people are angry about or they don't like about them being we've made 50 fixes. And so we did that. But I remember before that was experiences, yep. experiences we launched every categories a year ago. Oh, yeah, I remember that took and aired in air cover, which is this really important thing for hosts to protect them. But years ago, we at one point, we had 10 divisions, we had 10 marketing departments. Oh, it was so crazy that one time, I asked the marketing department, you get a conference room and put every piece of marketing on the wall. It took him a week to track down all the marketing because it was 10 different teams. I'm like, if you can't track down everything we're saying. And then I went around the wall and I said it feels like I'm looking at 10 Different companies. And I didn't even know 90 or 80% of marketing we were doing. I mean, we were doing we had different creative beings in different countries, and it was just incoherent. So what we do now is we just do a few campaigns. We don't do local campaigns we trans create, but we only do global campaigns because you know it's a cross border business. And we just tried to be incredibly simple. Steve Jobs had a saying, like you should marketing his education, you speak to the customer, the way you talk to an eight year old, not down to them, but they're busy. You have to explain things simply, if you can't explain something simple, you don't understand it. And so every type of communication we try to do, we try to do to somebody who's not really paying attention, they're busy. And they don't have time and say, What's the most basic idea we can communicate?

25:24  
Yeah, there is nothing like a great whiteboarding session, right? Do you feel me? Well, now you can brainstorm ideas, collaborate on projects, and do more from anywhere in the world with Miro Miro is an incredible tool for taking your idea from inside your head. And putting it out there in the real world thing zero to one building a startup from scratch. It needs input from everybody on your team and Miro democratizes collaboration and input. And it's so much more than just a simple digital whiteboard. It's a visual collaboration tool that's asynchronous and powerful. Your team can collaborate on Planning, Research, brainstorming, designing, and feedback cycles. mero equals zero to one, but faster. And here's the best part. Miro has a community of power users building 1000s of world class templates over at miro.com/mural Verse, one of these templates that you're gonna love is the complete naming mega workshops. So many startups struggle with picking a great name. In the early days of their startup. Well, this board takes you through a thought experiment to figure out a name for your startup and remember faster inputs equal faster outcomes, and velocity is how startups win. So go sign up for Miro for free at miro.com/startups. That's mirro.com/startups to sign up for free. It really is like this modern conundrum that Google finds itself and not to single out Google. I mean, any big company has this, I think Zuck had it as well, which is there's just too many people working on too many different projects, there's no cohesiveness. And then quality goes down. And then the consumers are like, am I supposed to buy a pixel or some other android phone am I supposed to use Chrome operating system or the Android operating system, which one is going to win out here, and then I'm a consumer, I have a nest, and then I have Google Home. And just that one, cognitive dissonance I have like where I open up Google Home to see all of my cameras and I opened up nest to see the old cameras, and I liked my nest better. And it's just chaos, right? And Sundar has got to be in the middle of this trying to referee it. And he did the same work

27:27  
that life I had that life before the pandemic and I said, I don't want that life. I don't want the life where I have to ask permission to get involved in adjudicating disagreements, I'm managing bureaucracy and dysfunction. I want to be in the product with people making the product, I want to be talking to customers, I want to be communicate with them. And I want as little bureaucracy as possible. And that requires us to do as little as possible. There's an old saying, have few details and perfect every detail. And that requires focus. It requires you saying no. So we probably say no. Now more than we say yes to things. And I think that's pretty important.

28:01  
Yeah, the second business line really was experiences. Am I correct? Yes. stays and then experiences? Yes. And is there even a third business line?

28:11  
No, no, it's really just, um, you know, probably broadly, like there stays 80% of stays are short term. 20% are long term stays defined by longer 30 days. So that's kind of like an in between, it's an extension of the core. And then experiences which has been kind of like an in between zone because it was we thought it was going to break up for the pandemic, and then we had to actually shut it down or pause it. So it's, we're in a process of we're going to reboot that. Yeah. And we, and we do. And just to be clear, we have some big ideas coming, we have some really huge ideas that I think will expand Airbnb way beyond travel way beyond our core. It's going to launch next year, but I'll tell one more story. You know, I feel like companies, you know, like, there's certain companies you like root for them, like pee, a lot of people love their Tesla car, and they like wanting to come out with a truck. A lot of people love in 2006 How many people wanted Apple come out of the phone? A lot. And the reason why is we all loved our iPod. How many of us love one gateway that came out with the phone, probably not many. And so I like to tell people, we have to have permission by the customer to do something new. And we only have permission to do something new if they love what we currently do. And if they're complaining on Twitter about upfront pricing, about having new chores, and they check out about customer service taking too long, then we don't have permission, they don't want to something new because they're gonna think we're gonna bring problems that category. So I tell the team, I said, we have some big ideas. AI is gonna unlock so many of them. But we don't have permission to do new things until people love our core service. So we're going to basically create a blueprint of every single thing people are complaining about. So we created this storyboard of the end end experience. Then we got a hot we got basically blueprinted out with a team, all 150 screens on the app, every user policy, all 72 user policies Now each of these user policies are as many as 100 pages long, right? Like, oh, who gets a refund? When and imagine, Jason, you're a call center worker, Aaron, you just hired you. And now, like two customers in different languages are in the dispute. And you're adjudicating between 70 policies that are as many as 100 pages long. That's a perfect example of AI. Anyway, this is an opportunity where we realized, okay, we created this blueprint. And then we map 10s of 1000s of social media posts, millions of customer calls, in all these interviews with customers, and we put them on the blueprint, we looked at what is everyone upset about? What do they want fixed, and baseness blueprint, we were able to go stage by stage and the end to end journey and prioritize the top issues. And we said, we're gonna get through every one of these issues, before we do something new. And that was the whole premise of today, it was basically fixing what people wanted. And then we had one more thing, where like, we got it, we have some unfinished business, this idea of people staying with each other in their homes, the original idea of Airbnb, it's kind of like the Vics Volkswagen Beetle, or Nikes running shoes, or Apple's iMac, or whatever the original car, original product, I said, we got to revive that we can't, we got to get back on the highway, we got to like, be invest in this core idea. Before we do new stuff. And so that was kind of what today was about. And hopefully, if we're successful, people feel like we listened.

31:21  
Let's talk about the user complaints and prioritization of them. Because how do you know when you're running something at scale like this, that this is something that's annoying, but necessary? Like, you can't throw a party in an Airbnb? Yes. Like, I had my old home, which I was thinking of keeping. And I had an Airbnb, and only one time in a year was there 40 thrown there, you guys handled it great. Like, there was a little bit of damage insurance picked it up. But you know, like, over and over again, it has in the documentation, do not throw a party here, do not throw party, right, get thrown parties. So how do you know when something is like, you know, just, this is a deal breaker for people who are hosts. This is a deal breaker for people who are going to choose a hotel or an Airbnb to run in an Airbnb or not run an Airbnb as a host. And these are like minor annoyances, but they come up frequently. So there's like a certain amount of suffering in each thing, right? Yeah. And I'm curious how you prioritize the suffering to alleviate it. Because you're also mitigating an arbitration between these two groups of people, the hosts, who can't be burdened so much that they don't want to be a host, because it's arduous. And then the people who are leaving the home who don't want to have to do an hour of chores when they leave, like it's reasonable, put the dishes in the sink, but do you have to mop the floor or take out the garbage? Okay, maybe taking the garbage out? was okay. How did you prioritize that?

32:49  
It's both an art and a science. I think that analyzing it as a science and then prioritization is probably more of an art I can explain. So let's take let's start with analyzing, the first thing we do is we try to take just take all the inputs. So what are the inputs, we get inputs, our customer service calls, inputs, our social media posts, and puts our we do like 10s of 1000s of like, we do listening sessions with guests and hosts. And then inputs are like, basically user behavior, right, you can like see what people are clicking, you can see retention, you can see when somebody churns, and then if there's a party, we don't handle, right, they churn, they don't come back. And then we see people in their network don't list and you can start to measure that. So those your inputs, those inputs, you basically now have like an organization of like maybe millions of, of issues, and you can bucket them to like, say 100 200 types of things. The next thing you do is you look at the frequency and the severity. So severity, will might be like a safety issue, very infrequent, but when it happens is really serious. A frequent issue is like I'm set with a refund, not as severe, but very frequent. That happens all the time. And then you then you start to look at relationships, like, you know, we notice a lot of hosts are complaining about pricing be confusing. A lot of guests are complaining, the hosts are charging too high fees. And then we start to realize, wait a second, if we make it easier for hosts to price, and they understand what guests are actually paying, they might actually do a better job pricing and guests won't complain as much. So you start to find, like connections. So this is where that's the science part. Now the art part. Now it's actually picking stuff. Because you have a list, you have some matrix like severity, frequency, this and that. But the real ability is the art form of a group of us. 10 or 20 of us deeply understand the issue. So well. We live the product, we use the product, I host I've read 1000s of things. You just take 1000s of inputs, you put them in your head, and then you just go through in you can't paint by numbers you can't be purely algorithmic is what I would say that's why That's the art, you could but I think is never as good as your intuition. But your intuitions form all these data points. And the intuition might be like, you know, it also might involve like, engineering capability like this is going to be a really heavy lift. So we have like T shirt sizes, a small lift, medium with large lift, extra large lift. So we'll prioritize high severity, high frequency, like low engineering lifts, for example, be a great candidate quick wins that with high payoff, there might be a big lift, but we need to do it to launch this feature later. See, so basically, there's like hundreds of inputs, you see how like, you're like weighing all these in your head. And I think there was a, I think developing a product, the best products, I feel like are a group of people that are deeply involved. And they can hold 1000, contradictory things in their head. And they can make all those different trade offs. We call that intuition. But I don't I don't know if I love that, because it makes it seem like it's arbitrary, and not systematic, it actually is very deep, and it can can actually be very technical. And so that's what we do. And I audit all the prioritization. And I personally decide on the final prioritization, that every single project and the company that a customer will ever see, I don't decide the final decision, I make the final call. And I only make a call if I'm informed. And I only am informed if my team understands. And so I make sure that I know the details, my directs know the details and their direct stress and other details. I also have a rule that if I have a direct report in the meeting, they can never call their direct to answer a question. If that's the case, they don't know the details, and their scope is too big. So I mean, within reason, so I I do so that's kind of how I do it. And then we we update it twice a year. So we have this thing called the roadmap review, where we bring in like top 70 or so product, people in the company or people waiting on the roadmap, we spent a couple days together, we debate everything on the roadmap, we adjust it, and then we roll it out. And then we have an extremely robust program management function. Most companies ask product management to basically be the program managers, we separate product management with program management. And we have a very small product management functions very small. We have a product marketers, product marketers, our Senior Product Managers. So we have no outbound people. You have to know inbound and outbound that junior product managers don't need to do outbound. But then most of what people call product management we call program management. And they're the ones keeping the whole thing on trains because everything has to fit together. And they're doing like really rigorous reporting every week about like where we are at the project. So it's, it's all integrated in the the net result of this Jason, is I can literally know the performance of an individual engineer, I've never met on a week to week basis. Because imagine if we're all designing a car, I know how good the tire team is doing. When I see the car assembled every week, and I see hey, there's something wrong with the tire. But when they're like 100 different products, I don't have time to evaluate 100 different things.

37:56  
Yeah. And this is where constraint comes in. If you want to make great art, as you learned as an artist at RISD, like, if you give some artist, you know, 1000 canvases and buckets and buckets of paint and million brushes, like they're where do you begin, right? And how do you prioritize and just get lost?

38:12  
Credit, people want constraints. And that's the other thing. And I think what happened, and maybe this is a burger lesson, Jason in Silicon Valley is, I think, in the last 10 years, we as entrepreneurs and valley probably didn't have enough constraints. And it's kind of like, we didn't ask for constraints. We didn't want constraints, but we probably needed them. I think that Airbnb before, the pandemic probably raised too much money, and we didn't raise as much money as others. And I think that in hindsight, like not having as much money means you have constraints constraints means you have to say no, you have to make hard decisions. If somebody is not performing. You can't just hire more people, you got to deal with it. And if a product is not succeeding, you got to actually fix it or sunset it, you know. So I think the constraints are really critical.

38:53  
Listen, we work with super early stage companies at my investment firm launch, pre series, a maybe got a couple of $1,000 a month in revenue, you've raised a couple of $100,000, maybe a million dollars, right? That's the early days, you're one or two of his startup. And I'll be honest, a lot of times, startups, they don't have their insurance. They haven't set that up yet. They haven't set up their accounting properly. They're getting things cleaned up. In fact, I was recently had a great startup, but they didn't have DNO insurance that basically protects your directors and officers. That's the day directors people on the board officers, the people who work at the company, right directors and officers insurance is super important. So what did we do? We sent them right to broker our friends over to a broker or a business insurance company that's built specifically for startups. You just fill out a simple application right? And then startups get four quotes for four lines of coverage in 15 minutes for quotes, four lines of coverage 15 minutes easy, breezy lemon squeezy. That's right. They connect you with one of their expert brokers for unmatched service that goes beyond your policy and listen, you may I think it's too early to have insurance. It's not that expensive. It's not that complicated. Because broker makes it easy. So here's what I want you to do try and broker today with the code TWIST. And you'll get 10% off their startup package at in broker.com/twist. That's in broker.com/twist. We love in broker I use in broker, they're an amazing team. They do a great job for startups, whether you're in year one or year five, go use in broker.com/twist. The zero interest rate policy led to a lack of discipline and maybe you avoid difficult decisions like, hey, this divisions working out okay, but it's not great. Yeah, it's never going to be profitable. And you watch Uber, you know, you guys had your media stuff that we're doing for a little while, which you were passionate about, remember, but like, at a certain point, it's about the guests. It's about their experience, and how many different projects could Uber do? They were doing micro mobility. And that was interesting, but it was just such a minor unprofitable piece of the business. They deprecated it right? Yeah. If people really want to get on scooters, like what percentage of people in what percentage of cities when you did this cycle, what do you think are the problems you solved? That were the most rewarding for you? Because when you solve a problem,

41:14  
so when you say, diddly knows a cycle, you mean which time horizon? Well, the one you

41:18  
just did, where today, the release? today? Yes, release. There must be things that you personally, as you did the prioritization said, Hey, these three things, these are the big wins. And now you put that tweet storm out with the images in it showing each one which I love, by the way, when you get it directly from the founder. And it's like, here's the image. Here's what I was thinking. Let me know. How did the public's early response your host early response your customers early response to what you thought the top three things were versus what they think the three things are?

41:53  
Yeah, so I um, the things I prioritize was probably number one, anything around pricing. The number one complaint Airbnb is that the prices have gone up. And we started as an affordable alternative to hotel. And Airbnb has had become over time less affordable, I think we just like I mean, that in itself was a potentially zero interest rate kind of phenomenon. And so that was the number one, it was like pricing transparency. The second one I focused on, because I just was so tired of hearing about it, and I didn't want people to deal with it was checkout shores, there was this thing, you know, turn the lights off, and you'll leave is totally reasonable. To strip the bed and put the sheets in the laundry is not reasonable you're on vacation like and especially if you pay the cleaning fee. So that is not reasonable. So that was the second one that I really prioritize. The third and this is more on the opportunity is monthly stays. That's a growing part of our business people think of us as a travel company, but 20% of our businesses now housing. In Airbnb, there's a lot of problems with monthly stays, for example, you can only pay by credit card, paying your rent with credit card means you have to pay a credit card processing fee. So we thought well, what if we allowed an integration where you can pay by bank, we did an integration with stripe, and now you can save a bunch of money paying by bank, you can now pay in installments, we now lower the fees, we now have this really cool little dial, we now have a really cool pricing discount tool. So hosts can be encouraged to charge less, and will promote the very best listings. So these are maybe some of the ones that I was probably most passionate about anything around pricing. And then we're on shores anything around really expanding the definition Airbnb. But yeah, there were 53 upgrades that we made. So there,

43:28  
yeah, and running a remote company. It's You're so thoughtful about how you're running the company now. And you have constraints seems like you've got it really dialed in. And listen, the stock market is responding to it, the stock market is looking for discipline, I think you were the first of the cohort to actually show it. Uber just showed it, they started hitting free cash flow. Daraa has done a great job there. And we're starting to see this discipline and Zach actually got religion, he cut 20,000 people and, you know, got rid of layers of management to how is when you are a remote company and you try to institute this, are these things in sync still? Or do you miss being in the same place with each other? Or do the you know, these retreats that you're doing? And these off sites, whatever you call them now? Are they enough? Or do you think at some point you want to be in an HQ again?

44:19  
Yeah, actually, yeah, so probably actually even good to clarify. We're not a so called returned office company or remote company, I would say like Shopify and Coinbase are probably remote companies. As far as I can tell, I last I checked, I go to an office every week. And many of my top people go to an office every week. And we have offices open and we welcome people back to the office. But we don't require people we say you were work wherever hell you want because we're so disciplined, so organized, that we don't think there's gonna be hit to productivity. I basically came to conclusion that especially with the accelerating rate of technological progress at AI, increasingly you're going to be able to have more and more of a global talent pool. And so then you have to if you're going to require people can have an office, you have to believe that you get a greater price. Activity gain by having them physically there, then the productivity gain you have be able to hire anyone anywhere in the world. And for some jobs, your core team where it's really creative, and you're making stuff, I think you want to be physically together. But I do not need our accounting systems to be managed together physically around me. And I don't need like 1000s of people who is going to come and talk to them after about 50 100 people. I don't know, I can't remember the conversations, I can't keep track those conversations. So my vision is that we have a small tight team of the most some of the most senior people, many product people, we built this creative studio, and we're in San Francisco a lot. And then the rest of the company, they can choose some groups, they do come to the office, other groups, people just work totally remotely. And then once a week, a quarter, we try to bring people together. Sometimes it might be a week, every six months. And I think that kind of suffices for a lot of people and others, we kind of give teams the option. But the most senior people, we were pretty pretty much together, we also travel a lot together. So like I'm here in New York, we probably had like 20 people here with me, so I was around them. But I think we're just still learning. We're still moving. And I think Jason, the future is flexibility. I think that like this is the worst technology will ever be in our lifetime. As screens get better. As bandwidth gets stronger. I think people are gonna want more flexibility. And my predictions, even proponents of working in the office. I bet you a lot of those people are going to be somewhere else over the summer and Airbnb, you know, so yeah, it's easy for all these guys. Yeah, we all these all these rich guys in New York, let's be honest, guys in New York, who said they want to call back the office. They're all going to Hamptons for the summer. And they're going to spin offs. So even the return the office, those aren't 12 months a year, those are now nine months a

46:43  
year. Yeah, and I mean, Europeans have their have a better lifestyle, enjoy it. So maybe what happened during this pandemic, when we look back on and we do the post mortem, it's going to be, hey, you know what, maybe Americans, we were slaves to the offices a bit too much. Yeah, we over indexed on it. And maybe there's some balance, because when you do take a four week vacation, and you work half days, for two of the weeks, you kind of come back refreshed and you stay with the company longer, you don't resent your company. And you're not depressed because you're feel guilty about not spending time with their kids or not checking the bucket list items. And I think you're so right about the speed to hire that talented person versus the annoyance of somebody quiet quitting, or somebody's phoning in, or somebody's working two jobs, like of course, you're gonna have abuse in every system, there's abuse of people who come to the office, screwing around with their door close. So you know, you're going to deal with some level of, I don't know, bad actors or whatever.

47:36  
And I kind of feel like, if you want people coming to office, it should be because of collaboration, you should be for trust building. It shouldn't be for accountability, we have enough tools digitally, that actually it's frankly easier to track people when they're working digitally than they're in the office, because you can actually track everything they're doing. And you can just have really good mechanisms like what did you get done today? Yes, actually, we have a whole program manager operation, whose job it is to basically tell you what everyone's doing. And if we don't know what you're doing, then we're not doing our job.

48:08  
That's I think, why people are so some of these managers are so aggressive about this is because they don't actually know how to manage. Yeah. And so since they didn't know how to manage they were managing by the fear of being in the office and the punch clock, as opposed to, did you assign the right person to work? And did you check the work? Yeah, and checking the work. And assigning the work is a lot of work. And prioritizing, as you just said, your biggest challenge as the founder is just keeping all this in your head. Yeah. And trying to make the right decision on behalf of the customers, right. And so many managers are phoning it in, I came up with the simplest system possible for my investment company, which is, at the end of the day, have a cup of coffee, and share with the team what you're going to try to accomplish. And when you check out for the end of the day, like make it a good checkout. So you can go and spend time your family and just say what you got accomplished. Are there any blockers and when people just started doing that in the slack room, it's such a big difference. It was such a big difference in them when somebody left the company, you know, we did we looked at their end of the week, and what they said they got accomplished what they were working on. And we said hey, here's the last three end of the week, we put it into one document who should do this job. Should this job be retired? Should it be spread across three people? Should it be outsourced? And you can actually look at the granularity like you're saying when they do digital work. It's all right there. So then you get this position need to be here or should it be outsourced or automated? You keep bringing up AI and I'm curious, when you start what are you seeing in AI right now that's getting you excited? Internally running the company and then externally in terms of opportunities because travel is such a rich textured experience is also so customized. So you know so much about your customers you know when I'm in Japan, you know my trip to France, you know the different places I've Caribbean bead, you know who came with me? And you know, whatever else you know about the host and everything. What do you think the opportunity is going Be in travel specifically for AI?

50:03  
Yeah, so let me let me if you may indulge Jason all like zoom out and just give you like kind of my mental model. And you can tell me if this maps to yours. So you have like the base of the foundation, right? The base models, which are basically the large language models. So of course, GPD forest, probably the preeminent base model, Google hasn't based models, anthropic has a base model, Microsoft creatures has their own base model. So you have like three to five big base models, I think of those base models as if it's like a highway, there, the highway there, like the infrastructure. And you know, in another generation, by the way, that probably would have been dealt by the government, right? It's almost like the Manhattan Project, these large language models are going to be eventually about $100 billion supercomputers running these models. So they're going to be like, massive, these are giant infrastructures. And we're not going to do that we don't do infrastructure. Airbnb, we think ourselves to design the cars on the highway. So on top of the base model, you have the tuning of the model, and the tuning of the model is going to be as good as your sensibility and your customer data. And if you and I both as chat up to a question, we mostly get the same answer. And we mostly get same answer, because it doesn't know who you were, I am. And that's great for some questions, like, what was the like, you know, like, how far is the moon from the sun or whatever? Like, there's one right answer. But if you asked, like, where should I travel? Your answer, and my answer are probably different. And so some problems are search problems. Some problems are kind of matching and personalization, preferences problems. And so what we want to do is, we want to be one of the best companies for AI personalization. So we want to develop really good tuned models. To do that. We have to change our business. And actually one of the questions that Johnny, Ive told me when we brought him on the team, is he said, You need to switch from beyond, you need to go beyond where and when, right now you ask where are you going? And when are you going? And we need to shift to who and what, who are you and what do you want. And that's really the vision. And so what we want to do is we want to build these robust profiles, I want to start to learn Jason, who you are, build really good, rich customer information. And then I can understand a personalized, like, where do you want to go? And also, what do you want in your life? Like you looking for inspiration, just get like a? What do you what are you looking for? Do you like want to get healthy, do you, you know, you start to learn about people. And then we're also pretty good interfaces, and the application layer. And I think that Airbnb, that's where we're really, really going to focus, we're going to focus on the tuning of the models, the most personalized AI interface, and then really good application interfaces. Now, I think as far as interface, I don't think they're all going to be just text based. For example, we were working on the opening AI plugin, we were one of the first partners that was working with open AI. And at the last second, I pulled the plug on the plugin, because I just didn't like the interface. I didn't think that was the right way to interface to travel. I told Sam, I said, long text outputs are low bandwidth. And then you give me another text output with widgets at the bottom, I said I want something much more multimodal more visual richer. And if you're going to have access to GPD, four, why don't we put it in our app. So we pulled the plug on the plugin. And we think eventually I think our real vision is Airbnb, at the largest sense, isn't even a product or service. I hope it's more like a travel community. We're really building the travel community. And then the role we have the app in the travel community is eventually we're like the ultimate like aI concierge. Right? We're like the ultimate host. Like Charles Eames, one of the greats in our 20th century said, the role of designers that have a thoughtful hosts, anticipating the needs of the guests. So that's what we should do. We understand who are you? What do you want? Where do you want to go? And maybe we can even go beyond travel, if we get there, right. And part of that means you have to trust us to give us your personal information, it means we have to be a marriage of art and science, it means we have to understand a lot about like human psychology and know what you want. It's not just a technical problem, we have to design unique AI interfaces that are probably richer than just text inputs. Because, you know, like you want to you want to see and feel things right. And I think it's much more immersive. So that's where I think it goes. That's like the long term vision in the interim, and that's probably long term is in three to five years. I mean, that's not even that long term. In the next year, what we're going to do is three things, one, engineer productivity or productivity, I mean, RCT, I think engineers can be 30% more productive in the next three to six months.

54:29  
Exactly that number, right. Yeah. I'm watching my team interview founders who for investment, I'm looking at how to diligence. And I'm looking at my own behavior. And it seems like one out of three tasks. Yeah, I can offload. Yeah. And so I'm like, this is like this year, 30% more efficient, which means headcount stays the same, but we just added a third more people like this is unbelievable. It's

54:50  
amazing. And by the way, it's actually if everyone's 30% more productive, it's actually more productive than adding 3% More people because the the mythical man month, every time you add somebody they bring it Communication and like, like, bring a tax with them. So this is like productivity without the tax of more people. And I think the productivity doubles. You know, in somewhere between one and two years, it's a little hard to know, but it will be double. So we'll have the equivalent of twice Engineers Without the productivity tax. And so that's the first thing is just getting everyone on the tools give everyone a copilot, and getting everyone like, just immerse and I just bang the drum, like use these tools as much as you can. I don't want to be like the Luddites or like afraid of a computer in the 1980s, right? Like, we want to be using these tools. That is

55:34  
so key, I told everybody to make chat GPT for their homepage in their browser. Every time they open their browser. It just reminds them, hey, use this and I said searches is obvious. But when I told you they do, they're like, Hey, here's what I'm going to accomplish today. And here's why. At the end of the day, I just told everybody try that in chat GPT and try a plug in. And by the way, we were talking about plugins being like not exactly the right modality. I've been using OpenTable, Expedia, kayak last couple days for travel, trying to see if it works. And it's not as good as using some of the other like native interfaces yet. I mean, I'm sure it'll get better. But I agree that it needs to be visual. And it Yeah, it's kind of nice to go

56:14  
open as a choice. They can either invest a ton on the interface layer, or they can decide that they're the brain and other people decide the interface either way can work. But either way, they're the the interfaces. Here's the thing, I'd say, Do you remember when when like the iPhone launch, and Steve said like the problem with most smartphones, the bottom half of the screen, the interface doesn't change. I think that we should think of every every task as wanting a distinct interface, like you have a hammer to get a nail and you have a screwdriver for a screw, you have a spatula to scoop something up. Every interface should be custom designed exactly for the challenge. It's not

56:50  
just for travel, or do you think it's flipping through videos that are Tiktok style, and then understanding which people spend more time on I don't think

56:57  
it's I think voice is for commodity. So if you basically say I need to go from here to there, and there's no inputs, there's no decision making or visual discretion and voice. I think it's more like, I don't wanna say like my narrow Minority Report. But I have this image of like, it's an immersive interface where it's words and images, and it's a conversational bot, but it's not pure text. It's got lots of rich visual libidos bowties. It's a little hard to describe, I have to go if you

57:27  
haven't seen Minority Report, he puts on a pair of gloves, which MIT was working on at the time. And he's just moving stuff around in a virtual desktop. That's which is actually what I'm talking about. Yeah, I think it's actually a pretty brilliant one. Because if you think about the function of magazines, which is how people did this previously, yes, he flipped through a magazine, what would you see in a magazine, a subhead a headline, a table, an infographic, a picture, a two page brand table. And all of that was evocative and kind of pulled you in. And I actually really think this vision of trying to understand me as a person, psychologically, and where I'm going next, oh, Jason's doing more skiing, oh, he's got a bucket list of places he wants to go. He's really into food. And that trust you've built up is interesting as well, because I would have no problem with authenticating with Instagram and giving you all my photos. And with AI, you can just tell from my photos, that I take pictures of a lot of food. And I take a lot of pictures of skiing, like you now know a lot about me. And I don't have to tell you, you just know my Instagram account.

58:29  
And I think the problem is, all of us. And I Airbnb is part of this problem. You come to Airbnb, and it looks the same as it did last time you came. And we're like a marketplace. And everything's a transaction. And we assume you're like, we don't know anything about you. And you just walked into a store and we got a bunch of stuff on a shelf. And I think that's a very 1990s 2000s Amazon paradigm of commerce. I think the future of commerce is more like somebody's showing you around, and they understand you deeply and you have so much more control. And it's significantly more personalized, and everyone has a unique experience. And so that's where I think it goes. And I think that we don't have a search problem in the future, we have a matching problem. So we are going to use AI to match you to whatever you want. And I think that the other thing is, I think we're going to be really good I hopefully, identity authentic authentication. You know, the problem with AI is, what's the first word in our artificial the biggest risks before machines come after us is they become us? And we can't discern who is a machine and who is not. And I think that we're already seeing that. I mean, when that post photo circulated, I thought that was a real photo first.

59:33  
And that too. I was like, that's weird. The Pope is going for it. Yeah,

59:37  
I'm like, pretty awesome. He's got Balenciaga go for him. But that's today's technology. So we're about to live in a world where someone can sound like me, they can behave like me. And as we spend more and more time online, it's gonna be hard to discern what is real and what's not real. So I think in the age of artificial intelligence, the other thing people want is authenticity. And authenticity is whatever is real and whatever is authenticated. So I think our Brand is kind of authenticity, we're not going to ever be the most digitally immersive company that's going to be social media or entertainment. Our value is really the physical world, we get you online offline with people different from you all over the world. And that comes with starting with knowing who you are authenticating your identity. Eventually, we may use biometrics, because right now we use like a government ID. But I think eventually, I want to do something with biometrics to be much more robust, so you can't really get around it. And then we have your identity, you trust us, we build this incredibly robust personal profile. And then we can just match you and we are the world. And hopefully, we're really good interfaces. And we use the latest greatest language models.

1:00:40  
Yeah, it's it's pretty amazing how fast these are working? And what's going to be possible because we don't know what it's going to match people with. Over time. Yeah, I don't know what my I don't know necessarily what's going to delight me. Every time I go somewhere in the world that somebody else introduces me to like my guide on the side, a friend few told me, Hey, you gotta try this place in San Francisco cafe, Okinawa, that I've been going to to get tonkatsu sandwiches, I told like three people about this. And because I love these when I go to Japan, and they're just everybody goes there. And they're like, oh, yeah, you're right, that was great. And now they spread to the next person. And that kind of word of mouth. I think like this AI is going to find little things like that, where it didn't know that this was something that you would be delighted by totally. And if such an opportunity,

1:01:27  
I think is amazing. And by the way, I think I heard another one of your podcasts, you said something that really resonates. But I think it's it's worth calling out. The cost of develop software is about to go down. And maybe a good analogy, Jason would be like the camera 130 years ago, very few people could operate a camera. And so therefore, you had to be a specialist to take a photo and there weren't a lot of photos, suddenly, computer programming is just basically telling a computer to do something and it's language. Ai means you can now tell computer do something in your language, the moment you don't have to learn a different language, use your natural language, English, suddenly, kind of everyone in a way can be a programmer, like everyone's a photographer, you don't have to actually have a skill. Now there will be programming skills. But suddenly, anyone can do that. Now when the it's possible, there's gonna be so much more software, we're gonna live in abundance of software. I think in a podcast, you reference, like a ski instructor or a ski company, like a niche business that couldn't have developed hire great software engineers. But now they can equip them the best engineer you've ever had developing their app. And so suddenly, the skill sets are different. We have to understand skiing, human psychology, taste, design, and how to operate and have a conversation with that tool. But you don't have to necessarily build the infrastructure, just like we never build servers because we add AWS. But if we launched five years earlier, we would have been really good at like, kind of building out servers getting backing

1:02:48  
server, actually back first half a million would have went towards a coding session facility. Yeah, and now it's like, you're just gonna talk to this thing, and it's gonna make your software for you.

1:02:57  
So I think this is going to, I think this is going to create millions of startups, I think that like, entrepreneurship is going to be a boon, I think there's gonna be millions more, I think anyone can essentially do the equivalent of what software engineering only allowed you to do only five years ago, it's going to be awesome. For many people, it's going to be wildly disruptive for others. Albert Einstein used to have a saying the best way to keep her balanced and a bicycle is to keep moving. And I think the best way to keep her balance in world AI is to keep moving forward and just adopt the tools don't fight it, and see where it takes us. But it's interesting. Well,

1:03:29  
you say that I was just looking, the Writers Guild was going on strike. And like on the second page, the third thing from the bottom was their update on AI. And they're like, we're seeking a ban of using AI in the writers room, using AI to ingest previous scripts, and using AI to generate future scripts and dialogue. And it said, the most the studio's will commit to is doing a yearly review with the union about technology. And it's like, Don't you realize you could ingest the entirety of the Simpsons or every late night joke. And then you would start on second or third base with all these incredible ideas and brainstorms for jokes and the jokes would get better. It would, and the shows would be more compelling. You're totally

1:04:10  
right. I think trying to ban AI is like trying to ban electricity, I just, you're going to be on the wrong side of history that genies out of the bottle, you can't put it back in the bottle. And I think that here's the problem. Jason, I think it's easier to imagine what jobs will be displaced than what jobs would be created. Because of course, we can imagine everything that now AI can do. We can't imagine everything we haven't yet done because that requires us to conceive of what doesn't exist. But if we remember that it all other periods in history, technology created jobs that didn't exist. This can do that, too. It doesn't mean we should be blindly ignorant or not be concerned. There's a lot of concerns I have about AI i just i I'm concerned by how fast is going and the society prepared for the speed. But I think from a creative standpoint, as a person who went to renowned school design, I would tell the creative community, you only have to be worried if you don't want to be a part of it, because this is a creative tool for you. You know, computers are tools. The reason they put a hand on the back of the iMac was the use of a saying an apple Never trust a computer, you can throw out the window computers or tools and AI is a tool. And I think we think of it as a tool, then it's a tool for creativity. And you're right, you start in third base, like, I'm already noticing a chat UBT like it makes my writing better. I don't use I actually don't use most of what chat she gives me back. But it gives me some words. And I'm like, summarize this and

1:05:32  
our problem is solved. Chris, you're like, hey, I want to write about I want to make a marketing plan. And it's like, oh, well, here's what goes into marketing planning. Oh, yeah, points two and seven. Let me double down on those.

1:05:42  
Or I can like, I can have 1000 word thing, say has summarizes some four sentences. And maybe don't use the four sentences, but it gives me ideas. By the way, before we go, I want to say one, I keep discovering new uses for chatting up to you. Here's the coolest use I've discovered. I asked chat GPD a question at the most fundamental level, what business are we in? And then it spits out? Not super insightful answer like Airbnb is the business of travel and experiences and blah, blah, blah. And then I The cool thing is you should do this is Ask the follow up and keep asking follow up. Still can't do it anymore. So I asked what's a more fundamental business, and it goes actually a more funnel, busier. Beeson is a sharing, and I go okay, but what's a more funnel business? benecos. A more fundamental business is human connection. And I go with the one funnel, and it just keeps you going. And you in but you start to learn and what it teaches you it's first principles, right? Because and then down. Yeah. And then I did the same thing with AI. I said, How can AI transform Airbnb? And it has these really small ideas. And then I go, how can do even bigger and if you keep doing it? And so if you keep going go bigger or go and more fundamental keep going. Take Yeah, AI starts to teach. It helps you discover the first principles in really like interesting ideas, which I think the follow up questions with these chat bots are always more important. The first question,

1:07:02  
yeah, it really gets interesting, the third or fourth time. And as you said, I think one of the most profound things you said here is we don't know what jobs can be created, because they haven't been created yet. Yes. And if you look at marketplaces, whether it's eBay, whether it's Etsy, whether it's Airbnb, whether it's Uber or DoorDash, to different extents, these loud people to create new careers for themselves. Now, how many people do we know now who became real estate magnets, and they own 20 properties, because of what how well, their first two properties did on Airbnb, or they have collections on Etsy, or Kickstarter. And who knows what this is going to lead to, but it's going to unless there's not enough problems, and not enough human creativity and energy, then this is going to be incredible for society. I believe that I'm an optimist about it. And I'm using it everyday for multiple hours a day, I'm playing with the plugins, the web tools, and I just started on Restlet, like, putting bounties and I'm starting a Python course because I'm like, I just want to know how to like, stitch this stuff together. Because the auto GPT is, to me are where this gets really wild. Oh, yes. If you can start putting a couple of the ideas we talked about today on auto pilot, and then say, hey, and try to make a better result every day. It could just be trying to make a better result for how Airbnb understands my travel tastes. And you say, hey, just keep trying to get information from Chase and ask him some interesting probing questions or look at his social media and, and try to give him better ideas. And then I give the thumbs up thumbs down either implicitly or explicitly, and you just start understanding me. Hey, listen, I know you gotta go. This has been amazing, dude. I'm so glad we got to finally do this.

1:08:41  
I know. Thank you for having me. I'd like to be back again soon. We gotta let's totally Yeah.

1:08:45  
Well, you know, the thing is like I had all these notes about like the blocking and tackling. Like all great conversations, I think and great CEOs. You've got some things on your mind about how you're architecting the company and then AI that are really profound. So if you're an entrepreneur, you're gonna want to listen to this with your team and probably don't put it on 2x speed because Brian and I both talk pretty quick. But a great conversation, bookend it with the show, interview. And we'll see you all next time on This Week in Startups. Bye bye.

